Blog Post: Why companies self-host analytics (#2739)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/why-companies-self-host.md

---
date: 2022-01-14
title: The 3 critical reasons companies choose self-hosted analytics
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
keywords: ["self host analytics","self hosted analytics"]

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/hipaa-compliant-product-analytics.png

Reviewer: This is a great picture, but it's an old-brand hedgehog. We're using a new style now, so this will need to be changed. 

There are some generic images in the new style already uploaded and available, e.g. contents/images/blog/posthog-company-culture-blog.png and contents/images/blog/posthog-blog-image.png , or can request a new one of @lottiecoxon if it needs custom, new art.

author: ["andy-vandervell"]
categories: ["General"]
---

> PostHog is a self-hosted, [open-source analytics tool](/blog/best-open-source-analytics-tools). Transparency is one of our [core values](/handbook/company/culture) and we believe self-hosting is the best solution for many businesses, especially large enterprises with complex needs. But, why? Why do we believe in this idea when the likes of Mixpanel, Amplitude and Heap are busy doing the exact opposite?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog is a self-hosted, [open-source analytics tool](/blog/best-open-source-analytics-tools). Transparency is one of our [core values](/handbook/company/culture) and we believe self-hosting is the best solution for many businesses, especially large enterprises with complex needs. But, why? Why do we believe in this idea when the likes of Mixpanel, Amplitude and Heap are busy exactly the opposite?
```

This is a question we're always interrogating. As a business it's important we're on the right path and part of that journey is constantly talking to and listening to our customers, whether they're paying or open-source users. 

> Those conversations never end, but through them we've found there are three fundamental reasons companies choose to self-host. If any of them apply to you, PostHog might be the product analytics you need.

Reviewer: End of the sentence reads wrong. 
```suggestion
Those conversations never end, but through them we've found there are three fundamental reasons companies choose to self-host. If any of them apply to you, PostHog might be the product analytics platform you need.
```

## 1) Data privacy

General Data Protection Regulation - four mundane words with huge consequences. Introduced in May 2018, the EU's GDPR is changing the shape of privacy globally. Why? Not only is it one of the toughest, most comprehensive privacy regulations in the world, its rules are extra-territorial. It doesn't matter if your company isn't based in the EU, if you want to process the data of EU citizens then you have to comply.

> Failure to comply is costly. Under its provisions, regulators can fine companies the greater of €20 million or 4% of global turnover. Amazon and WhatsApp were [fined €746 million](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/amazon-gdpr-fine) and [€225 million](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-58422465) respectively in 2021. Other nations, notably Japan, South Korea, Israel, Brazil and Canada have either introduced GDPR-like regulations or amended existing legislation to match, while California introduced the [CCPA](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa) to protect residents of California.

Reviewer: Love this. Very clear and hits well with the messaging.

> <BorderWrapper>

Reviewer: I love anything where we work in customer quotes!

[Mention Me](/customers/mention-me), a marketing platform whose clients include global brands like Puma, FarFetch and Zipcar, had exactly this problem when choosing a product analytics provider. 

“We knew we needed to keep everything on our infrastructure," says Joe Saunderson, Software Engineer at Mention Me. "Our clients’ privacy is very important to us and we have obligations to store their data safely.” 

They investigated third-party providers, but found their approach to data privacy unclear, making self-hosting the best option.

[Pry](/customers/pry), a financial planning platform for small businesses, faced a similar problem in keeping control of the sensitive financial information of its clients. Co-founder Tiffany Wong concluded self-hosting was the answer as she can be "confident that our data is safe and shared with as few platforms as possible".

> Issues around data portability are particularly crucial for health startups. Any product capturing health information in the US is subject to HIPAA, which regulates how companies use protected health information (PHI). Companies need to use [HIPAA compliant analytics providers](/blog/hipaa-compliant-analytics) and sign a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) before any user tracking can occur. By self-hosting, companies keep control of their data and avoid the legal expense, time and energy drained in dealing with legal agreements.

Reviewer: You single out just health startups, but I think it's really healthcare companies of any size. Esp as we focus on enterprise more.

Author: Good point

PostHog customers frequently tell us that controlling their data through self-hosting is simply a core value of their business. They don't want to share their data with Google, Facebook or any other large third-party, both to protect their users but also the value of their proprietary data. For many this isn't a new desire, but until recently the option to self-host a powerful, fully-featured product analytics suite didn't exist.

## We get it, self-hosting is great, does that mean everyone should do it?

We are self-hosting evangelists and [deploying PostHog](/docs/self-host) is a quick and easy process, but we also recognise not everyone wants or is ready to self-host. That's why we [also offer PostHog Cloud](/signup), a version of PostHog hosted and managed by us with automatic upgrades, and minimal setup.

> We often find customers prefer to start on PostHog Cloud and migrate to self-hosting when they're ready. You can start using PostHog Cloud immediately and it's free to use up to 1 million events per month.

Reviewer 3: 2 cents: 
Maybe we can mention the benefit of PostHog cloud that you can see the source code, so even though it's SAAS it's still probably better in the eyes of privacy conscious folks.

'migrate to self-hosting when they're ready' / 'until you're ready to transition' leaves an impression that everyone should in the end self-host vs it could be better to leave the impression that it's possible and easy if they desire/need later.
